W-15585650-acb-governance-duke add doc file (#303)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/des-govern-api.adoc

= Governing APIs
:page-deployment-options: cloud-ide, desktop-ide
// :page-aliases: 

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="anypoint-code-builder"] 

> Check conformance of an API specification with rules in governance rulesets and to fix any resulting issues. In Anypoint Code Builder, API specifications are created within or imported into API design projects (see xref:des-create-api-specs.adoc[]).

Author: ```suggestion
Check that API specifications in your design projects conform with rules in governance rulesets, and fix issues that result.
```

For information about rulesets and governance, see xref:api-governance::index.adoc#anypoint-api-governance-concepts[Anypoint API Governance Concepts].

[[prereqs]]
== Before You Begin

> //TODO: TIME PERMITTING, SHARE INFO FROM RNS HERE VIA INCLUDE

Author: ```suggestion
You must have an API design project with a supported specification in Anypoint Code Builder. See xref:des-create-api-specs.adoc[]).

//TODO: TIME PERMITTING, SHARE INFO FROM RNS HERE VIA INCLUDE
```

== Workflows and tasks

A typical workflow consists of one or more of the following tasks: 

. Add one or more rulesets to a design project. 
+
<<add-rulesets>>
. Run rules in the rulesets to determine if your API specification conforms with the rules.
+
<<run-rules>>
. Fix any conformance issues.
+
<<fix-issues>>

[[add-rulesets]]
== Add Rulesets to a Project

Add governance rulesets from Anypoint Exchange as project dependencies to your API design project. 

Rulesets are hosted on Exchange. MuleSoft provides a number of public rulesets. For example, the ruleset https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/exchange/68ef9520-24e9-4cf2-b2f5-620025690913/anypoint-best-practices/minor/1.6/[Anypoint Best Practices] provides documentation and examples. Your team can also create and publish rulesets for your organization to Exchange (see xref:api-governance::create-custom-rulesets.adoc[]).

. Open your API design project in Anypoint Code Builder.
. Open the *Governance Rulesets* panel in your project. 
. Add a ruleset:

* If the panel does not contain any rulesets, click *Add Rulesets*.
For example:
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::gov-rulesets-add-panel.png["Governance Rulesets panel",width=600]

> * If the panel contains rulesets, hover over the panel and click image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-gov-ruleset-add.png["", 15,15] (*Add Governance Rulesets*) to add another ruleset. For example:

Author: ```suggestion
* If the panel contains rulesets, you can hover over the panel and click image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-gov-ruleset-add.png["", 15,15] (*Add Governance Rulesets*) to add another ruleset. For example:
```

+
image:anypoint-code-builder::gov-rulesets-add-panel-not-empty.png["Add ruleset icon",width=600]

. If prompted, sign in to Anypoint Platform.
. Search for the ruleset, and click *Add Rulesets*. For example:
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::gov-rulesets-search-add.png["All Available Rulesets",width=600]
+

> You can also select specific organizations from the *Any organization* menu, and you can select a different version of a ruleset if more than one version is available.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also narrow your search to specific organizations from the *Any organization* menu, and you can select a different version of a ruleset if more than one version is available.
```

. Proceed to <<run-rules>>.

[[run-rules]]
== Run Rules Against Your API Specification 

> Run governance rules to validate your API specifications. Governance rules are part of rulesets.

Author: ```suggestion
Determine whether your API specification conforms with rules in governance rulesets. 
```

. Open your design project.
. Open the *Governance Rulesets* panel to check for rulesets in your project.

* If any rulesets are present, proceed to the next step.
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::gov-rulesets-add-panel-not-empty.png["Add ruleset icon",width=500]
* If no rulesets are present or if you intend to add more rulesets, go to <<add-rulesets>>.
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::gov-rulesets-add-panel.png["Governance Rulesets panel",width=500]

> . Run your rulesets from the *Governance Rulesets* panel.

Author: ```suggestion
. Run rules from the *Governance Rulesets* panel.
```

* All rules in all rulesets
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::gov-rulesets-run-all.png["Clicking icon to run all rulesets",width=500]
* All rules in a single ruleset
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::gov-rulesets-run-ruleset.png["Clicking icon to run a rulesets",width=500]
* A single rule in a ruleset
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::gov-rulesets-run-rule.png["Clicking icon to run a rule",width=500]
+
You can monitor the rules as they run. For example:
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::gov-rulesets-running.png["Rules running in the panel",width=500]

. If any rules return an error (image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-gov-rule-error.png["",15,15]) or a warning (image:anypoint-code-builder::icon-gov-rule-warning.png["",15,15]), proceed to <<fix-issues>>.
+
For example, this ruleset returns a warning on some rules:
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::gov-rulesets-warning.png["Ruleset with warnings in API Governance panel",width=500]
+
The Governance Results panel also identifies any warnings or errors. For example:
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::gov-rulesets-warning-output.png["Ruleset with warnings in Governance Results panel",width=700]

[[fix-issues]]
== Fix Issues

> If any of your rules return errors or warnings that you need to address, fix the specification to comply with each rules. Then re-run each rule to make sure that the fix is effective.  

Author: ```suggestion
If any of your rules return errors or warnings that you need to address, fix the specification to comply with the rules. Then re-run the rule to ensure that the fix is effective.  
```

> = Governing APIs

Reviewer: I'd caution against using "Governing APIs", because "governed APIs" is a very specific term that indicates how many APIs someone is paying for when their governance admin has set up a profile in API Governance that causes a filtered set of APIs to be "centrally governed". Applying rulesets to APIs in ACB or APID doesn't actually govern the APIs, so it isn't accurate to say "Governing APIs". Applying rulesets as dependencies just lets developers check their own APIs to ensure they're following the rules. It's possible the APIs might also be governed by API Governance, but adding rulesets as dependencies in ACB or APID isn't what makes that happen.
I'd suggest something like "Checking API Conformance to Rules" or "Validating APIs Against Rulesets" or "Testing Specifications Against Rulesets".

Author: ok, ignore the accidental merge. Instead of reverting, I restored the branch so that it remain on the review site and will do edits in a different branch.

// :page-aliases: 

include::reuse::partial$beta-banner.adoc[tag="anypoint-code-builder"] 

Test your API specifications in Anypoint Code Builder design projects against rules in governance rulesets, and fix conformance issues that result.

For information about rulesets and governance, see xref:api-governance::index.adoc#anypoint-api-governance-concepts[Anypoint API Governance Concepts].

[[prereqs]]
== Before You Begin

You must have an API design project with a supported specification in Anypoint Code Builder. See xref:des-create-api-specs.adoc[].

//TODO: TIME PERMITTING, SHARE INFO FROM RNS HERE VIA INCLUDE
Ensure that your API specification is supported. See API governance xref:acb-release-notes.adoc#compatibility[Compatibility].

[[workflows-tasks]]
== Workflows and tasks

A typical workflow consists of one or more of the following tasks: 

. Add one or more rulesets to an API design project: 
+
<<add-rulesets>>
. Run rules in the rulesets to determine if your API specification conforms with the rules:
+
<<run-rules>>
. Fix any conformance issues in the specification:
+
<<fix-issues>>

[[add-rulesets]]
== Add Rulesets to a Project

> 

Reviewer: I guess they don't say "Add rulesets as dependencies" in ACB like they do for APID. I did notice that they still add fragments as dependencies in ACB, though. I assume that was a design decision? Or should we point this discrepancy out to David Tsai?

Author: Yes, they are added as dependencies to the project.

+
[source,yaml]
--
#%RAML 1.0
title: my-des-with-governance
protocols:
  - HTTPS
--
. Re-run the failing rule to ensure that the error is fixed.
+
For instance, after fixing the `protocols` error in the <<example, specification example>>, run *use-https-for-scheme-protocol* from the *Governance Rulesets* panel. For example:
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::gov-example-run-fixed-error-https.png["Re-running HTTPs rule",width=700]
+
Notice that the error no longer appears in *Governance Rulesets*. For example:
+
image:anypoint-code-builder::gov-example-error-fixed-https.png["Fixed HTTPs rule",width=700]
+
In addition, the *Governance Results* panel no longer lists the issue. 
. Address warnings, as needed. 
+
For instance:

.. Address the warning `Provide the description for the API` by adding a `description` to the <<example, specification example>>. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
--
#%RAML 1.0
title: my-des-with-governance
description: my description
protocols:
  - HTTPS
--
+
The description is between `title` and `protocols`.
.. Re-run the rule *api-must-have-description*, and notice that the specification now conforms to the rule.
+

> image:gov-example-warning-fixed-description.png["Fixed description"].

Reviewer: Although I'm not copyediting, I happened to notice there is a  period at the end of the image

+
The ruleset continues to identify a warning because a different rule in the ruleset has a warning. 
. Address any remaining issues that you intend to fix.
+ 
For instance, for the warning `Provide the documentation for the API` in the <<example, example>>, add and save `documentation` markup to the specification:
+
[source,yaml]
--
#%RAML 1.0
title: my-des-with-governance
description: my description
documentation:
  - title:  My Title
    content: |
      Welcome to my API documentation.
  - title: Legal
    content: |
      This is my legal documentation. 
protocols:
  - HTTPS
--
. Re-run the corresponding rule from the *Governance Rulesets* panel.
+
For example, re-run *api-must-have-documentation*, and notice that the specification now conforms to the rule. 
+

> image:gov-example-warning-fixed-all.png["Fixed documentation"].

Reviewer: Also a period after this one
